[This GDD is from](http://www.CompleteUnityDeveloper.com)
---
# Laser Defender
### Game Design Document
### CONTENTS
- Description Of Game
- What You’ll Learn
- Screen Mockups
- How to extend Laser Defender
### Description Of Game
Laser defender is a modern 2D clone of Space Invaders. In particular, it takes from space
invader the movement and fire mechanic, but omits the destructible covers. The player,
represented by a spaceship, will be able to move within the play space using the left and right
arrow keys, while shooting projectiles upward in the playspace.
The game will be a single infinite level, with enemies perpetually spawning as the player
destroys them. Each destroyed enemy will earn the player score points, with the aim of the
game being to reach the maximum score before the player’s inevitable destruction by an
enemy. Enemies will also shoot projectiles, that the player will have to avoid.
Key features:
- Player ship will be able to move left and right within the game space.
- Player actions will be reflected in animation of the player ship
- Player ship will shoot one type of projectile
- Enemies will fly in formation
- Enemies will have an animation while in formation
- Enemies will be spawned outside the playspace and fly into their formation positiion
- Upon destruction, enemies and player will animate as a fireball
- The background to the game will be animated and give the impression of flying
through space
- When a projectile strikes an object, it will play a small strike animation
- Sound will be generated by the following events:
- player fires
- enemy fires
- player is destroyed
- enemy is destroyed
- player projectile strikes enemy
- enemy projectile strikes player
- Background music will also play during the game
- The player will have three lives, and be able to absorb three enemy shots before dying
- Enemies may require more than one shot to be killed.
### What You’ll Learn
After learning about collisions in BlockBreaker, Laser defender will be used as an exercise to
learn about triggers. In addition, 2D animations, in particular, Laser defender will introduce
you to the Mecanim animation framework, which will enable complex animations and
animation states by using a simple visual interface. We will also review and practise past
lectures, in particular lessons on creating and manipulating prefabs will be thoroughly
reviewed.
